[STUDENT]
No!
[RIKA]
For a long time now,
there's a certain something
I've secretly been
dreaming of doing.
And now I want us
to make that dream
come true together, Satoko.
Basically, I wanna go live
the high life with you
at a fancy boarding
school, Satoko!
Wait. What's the matter?
Please, hear me out!
It's something
I really need to tell you‐‐
[SATOKO]
Rika.
I have no problem admitting that
I'm not as smart as you,
or that I hate studying with
every fiber of my being.
[RIKA] Me too! If anything,
I hate it even more!
That's why we have to work‐‐
Stop talking and
let me finish speaking.
Even if I get into
that school with you,
I won't be able to keep up
with the academics.
And none of those
proper young ladies
will want anything to do with
a country bumpkin like me.
You're a natural at playing
the quiet, dignified type.
They'll fall in love with you
the moment they meet you.
I couldn't handle being all
alone in that place.
I know that won't happen!
I'm your best friend.
I'll still be your best friend
after we get into this school!
You won't be alone.
No matter what happens,
I'll always be by your side,
'cause my dream is for us
to go there together!
I need you to trust me‐‐
You liar!
You're lying.
You dirty liar!
I know what "together"
means when you say it!
You'll never get bored
and give up
on the entrance exams
if we can study together.
If you fail, you'll have
a shoulder to cry on
if we check
the results together.
Walking to the bathroom
at night is less scary
when we're together!
That's what you're
really saying, right?
[RIKA]
No.
That's not what I meant.
[SATOKO]
Rika.
The truth is
that very few people
can do anything they
set their minds to.
You tried your best to
learn how to ride a unicycle.
Do you remember
how that turned out?
[RIKA]
Yes.
[SATOKO]
And walking on stilts, too.
I picked up both
skills quite easily,
while you struggled and
struggled, and kept failing.
This is like that.
[RIKA]
But... I wasn't...
[SATOKO]
Nobody is perfect.
We all have our limitations.
There are things we can't do,
however hard we try,
and this is mine.
I won't become a great student
even if I try my hardest.
I don't want to try my hardest!
I despise studying!
Making your dream
come true is going
to make me miserable,
and I am not willing to
put myself through that!
Even if I do,
you're going to be too busy
impressing your hoity‐toity
new classmates in the tea parlor
to even bother talking to me!
Then they'll be your friends,
and I'll be some baggage
you brought along!
I already know
that's how this goes!
I just don't understand where
any of this is coming from.
It's time for you
to make a choice!
You can have your dream school
or you can have me!
Make your decision
and live with it!
Why are you so
mad at me, Satoko?
What have I done to upset you?
Will you go on
living your happy life
with your best friend
in the village you love?
Or will you abandon
Hinamizawa, and me?
You have to pick,
and you have to do it now.
[RIKA]
I'm sorry.
But I can't do that.
My dream is to go
to this school with you,
and I refuse to give it up!
[sighs]
[SATOKO]
Rika.
The two options
I presented you with
were the only ones you had.
[SATOKO] But I've always
known how stubborn you can be.
You won't make this easy.
[RIKA] Where are you taking me
this early in the morning?
We could've slept in.
Do we have to do this now?
[SATOKO]
We barely made it in time.
Look out over the mountains.
[RIKA]
Mii?
[SATOKO]
It really is stunning, isn't it?
It's so beautiful.
[SATOKO] But there's
so much more to this place.
The evening view.
The night sky.
Every minute of every hour,
in every season, from any angle.
We've both lived in Hinamizawa
Village for all these years,
and there's still a world
of natural beauty here
just waiting to be discovered.
Speaking hypothetically.
Between you and me,
if someone fortunate
enough to be born here
decided they wanted to leave,
you would think that
person was squandering
a wonderful blessing,
wouldn't you?
[RIKA]
Mm.
You're right.
It almost feels as though
you can read my
mind sometimes, Satoko.
That's no mystery.
It's only natural
that your best friend
would know you so well.
And I'm glad you can.
You're the best friend
I could ask for,
and I hope we'll
always be together.
Then could you‐‐
[RIKA] That's why I wanted
to tell you about this.
I need your help to make
my dream come true!
Beg your pardon,
but which dream is that?
I've been thinking
about it for a while now,
and the time has finally come!
Once we graduate
from the Village School,
I want to leave Hinamizawa and‐‐
[SATOKO]
Rika. Were you listening?
I said it would be foolish
to abandon such
a beautiful place,
and you said it was
like I read your mind,
in those same words.
Stop, you're scaring me!
[SATOKO] Then you say you
want to do just that?
Surely you understand
that the gods
will punish your foolishness.
Don't deny it.
Lord Oyashiro would
weep at your betrayal.
Lord Oyashiro did weep for me
being trapped in
Hinamizawa for years,
and I'm not betraying anyone
by trying to be happy.
I honestly believe that this
is what he would want for me!
Such stupid,
self‐serving drivel.
Really. It's shameful.
And from a priestess, too.
[SATOKO]
That's enough, already!
We both know this isn't
who you really are, Rika!
[KEIICHI]
What's going on?
Satoko?
If anybody is acting out
of character here, it's you.
[KEIICHI] I've never seen
you two fight like this.
What's going on, you guys?
What is it?
I know you mean well,
but this matter is strictly
between me and her.
Stay out of it.
I understand that, but we can't
just let our friends fight.
If you want us to help you
work it out, ask us, okay?
[RIKA]
Thank you both.
But I don't think you can help.
‐‐[KEIICHI] Hey!
‐‐[RENA] Satoko, please don't!
[SATOKO]
Honestly.
How are you this stubborn?
[??? chuckles]
You have never yet failed
to entertain me, child of man.
[SATOKO] How can you
still not understand?
And how could I?
You're not making any sense!
Listen! I'm doing all this
because I care about you!
But that's exactly
why it doesn't make sense!
If you care about me,
then why won't you support me?
Why don't you want me
to follow my dream?
Let go! You don't know
what I've been through!
You don't know what
I'm going through right now!
[??? chuckles]
Your antics amuse unceasingly.
Between worlds,
this truth remains.
Stupid Rika.
[??? laughs] She has
spent ages waiting for the day
she could at last
pursue her dream.
And as she's labored so long,
her resolve to
make good her escape
from Hinamizawa Village
has surely grown stronger still.
But how long could she have
been thinking about this?
[???]
For about 100 years.
The cat was bound
inescapably to Hinamizawa.
Huh? Hold on.
For 100 years?
For a century,
this desire has crystallized
deep inside her heart.
It has grown far too strong
to be destroyed so easily.
[gasps]
And when you say, "the cat,"
you're referring to Rika?
How was she
"bound" for 100 years?
She hasn't been alive
for more than a dozen!
[??? chuckles]
You and the cat are
of the same kind.
Huh?
Indeed.
However, she's lived
in loops far longer,
repeating the same
frame of time again and again
across countless worlds.
[gasps]
Then Rika's a looper like me?
[???] Yes, relentlessly
pursuing a single goal.
To free herself from the
Hinamizawa Village of June 1983.
[SATOKO
1983.
That was the year
those Mountain Dogs
and their plot nearly
destroyed the village.
It was a difficult time
for everybody.
But we all managed
to come together,
and we were able
to save Hinamizawa.
And to your eyes, that was
the beginning and end of it.
What do you mean by that?
[???] The cat battled fiercely
through loop after loop
to bring about
that single victory.
Without pause.
For a century.
Each fragment that surrounds us,
holds a record of her life
in one of the worlds
she's traversed.
One could think of them
as proof of the hefty toll
that was extracted from her in
pursuit of her ultimate victory.
[SATOKO]
These things are Rika's loops?
[???] Perhaps you would
like to take a glimpse
into these memories?
[SATOKO]
Keiichi? Stop!
What are you doing?
That's Mion!
Was that something
that Rika had to endure?
[??? chuckles]
That was but the
briefest of excerpts.
A mere span of moments
out of a century.
Though I trust it
told enough of the story
to offer you some
understanding, yes?
I think that's fair to say.
I could never have
imagined Keiichi
doing something so horrifying.
[???]
The cat spent 100 years
grasping desperately
at her goal,
and these fragments
are the fruit of that effort.
There were many times throughout
when she nearly resigned
herself to being swept away
in the spiral of tragedy.
And much as you have done,
she would agonize endlessly
over the futility of her efforts
to change her life's course.
[SATOKO] No matter how many
times you do things over,
you'll never know if doing
something differently
will turn out in your favor.
I had believed that the ability
to live in loops offered
a guarantee that my efforts
to make my wish come true
would all pay off in time.
But it's not as simple as that.
Give a monkey a typewriter
and an infinite amount of time,
and eventually, it's
certain to reproduce Hamlet
in its entirety.
But one could hardly guess
how long it might take,
or what travesties it may
generate in the interim.
I realize what I have to do now.
[???]
Oh?
If I intend to
change Rika's mind,
I have to better understand
why she feels the way she does.
And what is your plan
to gain this understanding?
[SATOKO] If these fragments
tell her story,
then I simply need
to watch them all.
You realize that to witness
100 years of memories,
one must endure said memories
for 100 years, do you not?
[SATOKO]
Yes, naturally.
[???]
Hm...
[??? chuckles]
Truly, you always entertain me!
It's the only way.
I refuse to let Rika win.
[KEIICHI pants heavily]
When people here
talk about demons,
is that what they mean?
Why won't you tell me?
[RENA] I don't think I
understood a single thing
you said just now, Keiichi.
[KEIICHI]
Maybe you'll understand this!
Who was behind all of the
murders in Hinamizawa?
[KEIICHI]
I can't turn around.
Not now!
If I look behind me,
I... I'm gonna.
[OOISHI] I know you're afraid,
and I want to help!
But I have to know
who is behind you first!
Please. Just a quick glance,
Mister Maebara!
What is that?
That sound.
Tell me, you're not scratching
at your neck right now, are you?
[RESCUER A]
You a resident of Hinamizawa?
Name and address, please?
[KEIICHI]
I just know I live in town.
And my name...
It's Keiichi Maebara.
[RESCUER A]
Hey!
We're in these
people's home now!
Show a little respect!
[RESCUER B]
Sorry, sir!
[RESCUER C]
Sorry!
[KEIICHI screams]
[TAKANO] Hinamizawa Syndrome
is a biological bomb,
and by all indications,
it seems the fuse has been lit.
Fortunately for us,
there are people in Tokyo
who are eager
to see what happens
when that bomb explodes.
You must be out of your mind!
Hinamizawa Syndrome is an
incredibly dangerous disease,
and out of everyone,
you should understand that!
Do have any ideas as to who
Takano and Tomitake's
murderers might be?
[IRIE] Looking at the situation
overall, it's clear
that it has to be somebody
within the organization.
[laughs]
And realistically,
it would make sense for me
to be the prime suspect, right?
Considering the circumstances
of Tomitake's death,
you're the only suspect.
[IRIE]
No. I swear it wasn't me!
People must have been
bringing my name up in Tokyo
in connection with H173,
but I swear,
we already destroyed
every sample made!
[HANYUU]
That's right.
Takano has been the person
who's killing you, Rika.
[RIKA]
But it doesn't make sense.
What reason could Takano
have to want to kill me?
She knows I'm the
queen carrier, and if I die,
Hinamizawa will be struck
by an unprecedented disaster.
And that's why the Irie Facility
and the Mountain Dogs
have been protecting me, right?
[SATOKO] I came to tell
you goodbye for the last time.
[SATOKO]
Farewell, Nii‐Nii.
[??? chuckles]
I was growing bored.
[SATOKO] I think I've
figured out the rules
behind Rika's endless tragedy.
And what will you do with
these newfound insights?
[SATOKO]
Watching these shards.
I realized something.
You can be reborn endlessly
into the loops, but your mind
will always bear the scars
of your past struggles.
[???]
That is correct.
My power grants an
existence without end,
but your mind is no more
resilient than before.
Though your consciousness is
not bound to a corporeal body,
it would not be correct to
say that you are immortal.
[SATOKO] Then the same
would go for Rika, yes?
As you have witnessed,
the cat tossed the dice
of fate again and again,
and for her undying persistence
she earned nothing
but endless suffering and death.
The perpetual tragedy gradually
sapped her will to fight,
until she'd grown almost weary
enough to give up entirely.
[SATOKO]
Did she?
That tells me that Rika
does have a breaking point.
I'll get her there.
There's no way I'm going
to settle for "almost."
[laughs]
And how do you
plan to achieve this?
I understand that
when I repeat a loop,
every other aspect
of the world is reset.
Nothing but my consciousness
persists, is that correct?
[???]
It is indeed.
Could you give
Rika the same power,
so that she'll be able
to retain her memory
throughout the loops
the way I can?
[???]
My...
Yes, easily.
The one who imbued
the cat with her power
was compromised
by a damaged horn,
whereas I have
no such affliction.
It shall be done.
I bestow unto you a greater
measure of my power.
Henceforth, if the cat's life
in a loop end before yours,
you both shall begin your next
lives in the same fragment.
That would mean I can keep
chasing the same Rika forever.
That is what
you're telling me, yes?
Once she's killed, she's
unable to retain the memories
leading to her death due to that
broken horn you mentioned.
[???] Yes.
The hours leading to her death
will be lost to her when
she returns to the loop.
Thus, she cannot
retain any knowledge
of the cause of her death
upon starting her next life.
If Rika dies,
then I die shortly after.
We'll both remember our lives,
and we'll move on
to the same fragment.
But Rika won't remember
any of the events
surrounding her death.
This will surely prove
to be a valuable tool.
Rika, there is no getting
away from me anymore.
This is a battle of wills now,
and you are not
going to beat mine.
[laughs] You've given me
far more entertainment
than I would ever
dare to hope for.
[SATOKO] For all the grandiose
talk of living in loops,
in the end, this is nothing
but an endurance contest.
I desire nothing
but a joyful, carefree life
in Hinamizawa Village with my
beloved friend Rika by my side.
And Rika wants
exactly the opposite.
She desires nothing more
than to leave me
and Hinamizawa behind.
Our dreams are directly at odds.
There's no way I'll lose.
I can't allow you
to have your way, Rika.
[SATOKO]
I love you far too much.
[RIKA] Next time:
Satokowashi‐hen, Part Six.